README.md, before:

Statistical Machine Learning with MicrosoftML
===============================================

This workshop covers the fundamentals of statistical machine learning with the [MicrosoftML package](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-introduction).

[![MRS](https://img.youtube.com/vi/arskgQaKlVs/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=arskgQaKlVs)

MicrosoftML is a package that works in tandem with the [RevoScaleR](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/scaler-getting-started) package and Microsoft R Server. In order to use the `MicrosoftML` and `RevoScaleR` libraries, you need an installation of Microsoft R Server or Microsoft R Client. You can download **Microsoft R Server** through MSDN here: 

1. [R Server for Linux](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-linux-server)
2. [R Server for Hadoop](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-hadoop)
3. [R Server for Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-windows)
4. [R Server for SQL Server (In-Database)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/advanced-analytics/r/set-up-sql-server-r-services-in-database)

You can download **Microsoft R Client** through the following sources:

1. [R Client for Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client-install-windows)
2. [R Client for Linux](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client-install-linux)
3. [R Client Docker Image](https://github.com/akzaidi/mrclient-docker)

## MicrosoftML References

+ [Cheat Sheet](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-algorithm-cheat-sheet)
+ [Overview of MicrosoftML Functions](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/overview-microsoftml-functions)
+ [Function Reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml/microsoftml)
+ [Quickstarts](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-quickstarts)
+ [MSDN Site for Microsoft R Server](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/)
+ [MSDN Site for Microsoft R Client](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client)
	* [R Client Overview](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/MicrosoftR/Microsoft-Introduces-new-free-Microsoft-R-Client)

## Table of Contents

1. [Feature Engineering](https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/1-Feature-Engineering.nb.html)
2. [Regression Models](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/2-Regression-Models.nb.html)
3. [Classification Models](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/3-Classification-Models.nb.html)
4. [Convolutional Neural Networks](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/4-Convolutional-Neural-Networks.nb.html)
5. [Sentiment Analysis](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/5-Sentiment-Analysis.nb.html)
6. [Transfer Learning - The Shallow End of Deep Learning](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Azure/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/blob/master/Student-Resources/rmarkdown/6-Transfer-Learning.nb.html)


## Useful Resources

+ [Introduction to Statistical Learning Video Lectures](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/HumanitiesSciences/StatLearning/Winter2016/about)
	* My favorite course on statistical learning
	* Worth doing twice!
+ [Introduction to Statistical Learning Textbook](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/)
	* _Baby Statistical Learning_
+ [Elements of Statistical Learning Textbook](http://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/ElemStatLearn/)
	* **Papa Statistical Learning**
+ [R for Data Science](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)
	* Covers the core tools in the [`tidyverse`](http://tidyverse.org/) ecosystem for data science and analytics
+ [Microsoft R for Data Science](https://github.com/Azure/LearnAnalytics-mr4ds)
	* My two-day workshop on Microsoft R Server for Data Science
+ [Microsoft R Server and Spark](https://github.com/Azure/LearnAnalytics-mrs-spark)
	* My 1.5 day course on Microsoft R Server and Spark Integration
+ [Scalable Data Science with Microsoft R Server and Spark](https://bookdown.org/alizaidi/mrs-spark-ml/)
	* In progress book on data science with Microsoft R Server and Spark

Commit message:

update readme with syllabus and prereqs

README.md, after:

Statistical Machine Learning with MicrosoftML
===============================================

## Description

This workshop covers the fundamentals of statistical machine learning with the [MicrosoftML package](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-introduction).

[![MRS](https://img.youtube.com/vi/arskgQaKlVs/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=arskgQaKlVs)

MicrosoftML is a package that works in tandem with the [RevoScaleR](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/scaler-getting-started) package and Microsoft R Server. In order to use the `MicrosoftML` and `RevoScaleR` libraries, you need an installation of Microsoft R Server or Microsoft R Client. You can download **Microsoft R Server** through MSDN here: 

1. [R Server for Linux](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-linux-server)
2. [R Server for Hadoop](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-hadoop)
3. [R Server for Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/rserver-install-windows)
4. [R Server for SQL Server (In-Database)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/advanced-analytics/r/set-up-sql-server-r-services-in-database)

You can download **Microsoft R Client** through the following sources:

1. [R Client for Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client-install-windows)
2. [R Client for Linux](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client-install-linux)
3. [R Client Docker Image](https://github.com/akzaidi/mrclient-docker)
	- [R Client Docker Image with RStudio Server and Course Repository](https://github.com/akzaidi/mrclient-rstudio)

## MicrosoftML References

+ [Cheat Sheet](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-algorithm-cheat-sheet)
+ [Overview of MicrosoftML Functions](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/overview-microsoftml-functions)
+ [Function Reference](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml/microsoftml)
+ [Quickstarts](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/microsoftml-quickstarts)
+ [MSDN Site for Microsoft R Server](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/)
+ [MSDN Site for Microsoft R Client](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-r/r-client)
	* [R Client Overview](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/MicrosoftR/Microsoft-Introduces-new-free-Microsoft-R-Client)

### Intended Audience

This course will be useful to anyone looking to use the advanced analytics capabilities provided by Microsoft ML Server. A minimal background in R and statistics are assumed, which you can refresh with the resources below.

## Syllabus

1. [Exploratory Data Analysis and Feature Engineering](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/exploratory-data-analysis-and-feature-engineering.html)
1. [Training Regression Models with ML Server](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/regression-models.html)
1. [Classification Models for Computer Vision](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/classification-models-for-computer-vision.html)
1. [Convolutional Neural Networks for Computer Vision](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/convolutional-neural-networks-for-computer-vision.html)
1. [Natural Language Processing and Text Classification](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/natural-language-processing.html)
1. [Transfer Learning with Pre-Trained Deep Neural Network Architectures – The Shallow End of Deep Learning](https://azure.github.io/learnAnalytics-MicrosoftML/transfer-learning-with-pre-trained-deep-neural-network-architectures-the-shallow-end-of-deep-learning.html)

## Prerequisities

This course assumes some R background.

### Introductory Courses

+ [Introduction to R for Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-r-data-science-microsoft-dat204x-6)
+ [Programming with R for Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/programming-r-data-science-microsoft-dat209x-5)
+ [Introduction to R by DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/free-introduction-to-r)

## Useful Resources

+ [Introduction to Statistical Learning Video Lectures](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/HumanitiesSciences/StatLearning/Winter2016/about)
	* My favorite course on statistical learning
	* Worth doing twice!
+ [Introduction to Statistical Learning Textbook](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/)
	* _Baby Statistical Learning_
+ [Elements of Statistical Learning Textbook](http://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/ElemStatLearn/)
	* **Papa Statistical Learning**
+ [R for Data Science](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)
	* Covers the core tools in the [`tidyverse`](http://tidyverse.org/) ecosystem for data science and analytics
+ [STAT545 - Data wrangling, exploration and analysis with R](http://stat545.com/)
	* Jenny Bryan's incredible course and resources
	* We will use the `purrr` package a few times in this course. You can find some awesome tutorials by Jenny here at [purrr-tutorial](https://jennybc.github.io/purrr-tutorial/).
+ [Microsoft R for Data Science](https://github.com/Azure/LearnAnalytics-mr4ds)
	* My two-day workshop on Microsoft R Server for Data Science
+ [Microsoft R Server and Spark](https://github.com/Azure/LearnAnalytics-mrs-spark)
	* My 1.5 day course on Microsoft R Server and Spark Integration
+ [Scalable Data Science with Microsoft R Server and Spark](https://bookdown.org/alizaidi/mrs-spark-ml/)
	* In progress book on data science with Microsoft R Server and Spark
